Through our visualization, we wanted to answer the question: What is the distribution of registered New York City dog names within a specific year that the user enters, with the years ranging from 1912-2023? To answer this question, we found a dataset from the NY times with the appropriate column and row information needed. To clean the data, we first converted the ‘AnimalBirthYear’ from str to int values. We then only included the first three columns of the dataset because they were the only columns relevant to our data exploration [‘AnimalBirthYear’, ‘AnimalName’, ‘AnimalGender’]. Our code in js then filters the cleaned dataset by only including entries under the user’s input Year, then groups the dataset by ‘AnimalName’, ‘AnimalGender’, then aggregates by count to have the dataset organized by counts of the male and female pet names by year. We then displayed the results using d3. There are a large number of dog names that represent null values in the dataset which we purposefully included as our intent is to observe the entire dataset, including the unnamed but registered pets. 


Our interactive visualization functions as follows: Users enter a specific year within our data range, then a bubble visualization will display bubbles whose sizes correspond to the count of a specific dog name within the input year. We implemented a square root scale to determine the  size of each bubble which is useful for visualizing data where you want to reduce the effect of large outliers and better differentiate between smaller values. If users enter a year out of the available year range, we have included a message that displays, “No data available for the year: [input_year]”. The input text box does not allow users to enter any values that are not numbers, and we’ve included an example (“2014”) within the text box to demonstrate the format we’d like users to input. In order to differentiate by dog gender, we labeled male dogs to the color blue, and female dogs to the color pink. We also included the ‘AnimalName’ and ‘Count’ to be displayed when the cursors hover over individual bubbles to provide our audience with other relevant information from the ‘AnimalName’ and ‘Count’ columns, as the ‘AnimalGender’ is already differentiated by red and blue colors and their corresponding sizes to the ‘Count’ column may not be completely clear to viewers. Red bubbles represent female dogs and blue bubbles represent male dogs, and we’ve included this information in a legend for viewers’ knowledge. We’ve chosen red and blue for our bubble colors as red and blue are known to be contrasting colors that allow viewers to easily distinguish between two categorical features (in our case: AnimalGender). Also, red and blue are color-blind friendly, making our visualization accessible to any color-blind users. When users hover over an individual bubble, that bubble is highlighted with a more solid border to indicate which bubble they have selected. Furthermore, for an additional amusing interactive feat, the bubbles are draggable and maintain their size and shapes so users are able to compare between individual bubble sizes, and therefore ‘Count’ column values. 


Group members: Natasha Lie, Claire Zhao, Jennifer Xu
Natasha and Claire → template of d3 bubble and initial visualization question
Claire →  found dataset, data cleaning
Jennifer → d3 visualization
Natasha → writeup


We spent a total of approximately 10 hours on the project. Tweaking the visualization’s interactive functions took the most time (e.g colors, centering, legend, etc.)


Link to our dataset: https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Health/NYC-Dog-Licensing-Dataset/nu7n-tubp/about_data
Link to our d3 template:
https://d3-graph-gallery.com/graph/circularpacking_template.html